all right before I start anything I just
want to say sorry if my setup is not
that great I currently have my phone on
a selfie stick inside of a pencil holder
balanced up by a rock so it's obviously
not quality setup but it's something so
a lot of people ask me what apps I use
and that app is procreate now it's
around six dollars or something USD but
I do highly recommend this app it's good
so I just want to show you a basic
tutorial if someone gets it and doesn't
quite know all the tools and tricks to
it trying to learn and understand any
new app is kind of confusing and a lot
of people ask me how I use it
so yeah let's go ahead and get started
parade so once you open procreate on all
of this stuff won't be here because
that's obviously mine but you will be
left with a screen like this I think
there's some default art prints but I
deleted those but here are the default
canvases you can read those if you like
I use the default Square and this is
what it looks like once you open it it
will look like this um actually the
interface will not be white it will be
black so here let me show you what I
mean I turned on the light interface
everyone's procreate without the light
interface turned on will look like this
actually but I just prefer the lighter
colors because it's easier on my eyes
alright that aside um here we have all
the brushes you can use some of these I
have made myself and edited but they
have quite a lot of brush options I'm
just going to vaguely go through
and then you can import brushes that you
find online using this once you find a
brush you like you can edit the size and
the opacity using these various tools
stars a quick undo option is to take two
fingers and tap or you can use these
arrows to undo anything you would like
if you have an issue with drawing non
straight lines you can draw the line and
then press and hold to make it straight
if your lines are wobbly like this
circle you can go to the brush settings
by tapping on top of the brush and
adding the streamline effect this is
like a stabilizer so it makes it lag
back so your lines are smooth air it's
not really great example that's not a
great circle but you know what I mean
it's slower than usual and it makes you
take your time with the brush to fill
something in you take the top right
color dot and drag and drop and it will
fill it in there will be like little
bits of parts that don't get filled in
but that can be easily fixed by manually
changing it now the line art has to be
closed because if it's not it will just
fill out the whole canvas or what area
is cable for the color to go into to
create a new layer you click on the two
squares and you will click the plus
button to add a layer to delete a layer
you slide to the left and click delete
and you can hide or show layers if you
would like to change the background
color you'll just click on the
background color option and you can
choose any color under the Sun
is that you would like the background to
be excuse my terrible handwriting but if
you want to add effects you can click
the magic wand tool up here to mess with
opacity you can add various different
types of blurs and you can even sharpen
your drawing and add a noise factor to
it which gives it a kind of grainy look
you can also recolor things so say I
want to recolor this whole background
white I can do that by using the recolor
tool and then you just click off of it
and the whole thing is recolored if you
go on the layers and you click the
little letter here you will find a bunch
of layer settings now I don't have
anything drawn right now so I can't show
you them but I will go to existing
canvas and show you alright so this is
an existing art piece I created earlier
today and as you see all the letters are
different now that means every layer has
a different effect to it some of them I
use for shading and some of them I use
for lighting and you have to change
opacity for the look you are going for
prayer let's say you are done creating
your masterpiece you go to the wrench or
tool bar and go to share and you can
share the artwork as any of these files
and then you can share it to your
gallery or airdrop it to anything also
right here is to export the video now
basically what this does is it shows a
really fast speed paint so I'm going to
save this and then show it so you guys
can see what it's like here we have the
glorious speed paint bonus so if you
click Play so basically to show you
everything that you did in a really fast
manner another section is the selection
tool now it will be this icon to
freeform anything that you want to
select and this icon to move something
aside from that that's all like the
basic techniques of procreate that I
know
and want to share with you also if you
were wondering what the little orange
feet were at the top of the screen it
was a giant relic which is how to
embarrass myself further there are some
bloopers also this is my amazing setup
it's I wasn't lying it's on a selfie
stick and a pencil holder bow and stuff
by a rock-like anyways thank you for
watching sorry this is kind of all over
the place also could you not I'm trying
to do something just click or just flip
around that's okay to networks also if
you were wondering what those little
orange things were at the bottom of the
video or the top also if you were
wondering with little orange feet we're
at the bottom if you have unsteady hands
or can't really draw a good circle
without the lines being a little wobbly
there is a setting for that and how to
get to brush settings is you slide to
the left of the brush and then you click
we're not don't work for me procreate
that sign didn't want you to work anyway
if you have a problem with whip once you
find a brush you like